---
layout:     post
title:      How Poetry and Computing Factor into Our Future
date:       2018-11-15 
summary:    A irritated response. 
categories: jekyll
thumbnail: cogs
tags:
 - Blog
---

#"How Poetry and Computing Factor into Our Future"

"Nick Montfort, Professor of Digital Studies at MIT, began his talk with a number of novels and expos in the late 19th and early 20th century. Montfort presented these works of examples of how literary works can help expand language in a way that coincides with innovation. Montfort states that systemic vision isn’t just prediction, its future making. Monfort situates himself in this anthology with his work with computational poetry. Montfort utilizes computer programs, meticulously designed with specific parameters, to  create line after line of poetry. To him, the production of these poems serves to act as a way to push the literary envelope. An example fo this, is a program he wrote which uses the names of cars to create short headlines, which, oddly enough, produce titles which seem well suited to periods of American history, such as “Cherokee Escape Imperial Cutlass.” The image is certainly there. In addition to pointing out how the automotive industry has a slant towards using native american tribes for car names, some of his programs seek to match words together, creating something similar to an absurdist novel. The Truelist, his first computational poetry book, does just this, spitting out words and phrases such as “the Wood Book, Hornwood, Bonestorm, House of Hands, and Air King”. Montfort also pointed out that certain words, such as king, have much more prevalence than words such a queen, examining some of the patriarchal structures built into our language. 
	Montforts most recent book, Sharp West Turn, is a meditation on the uses of simple and complex english. Produced using a program that took words and phrases from wikipedia pages about mass shootings, gun culture, and firearms, Sharp West Turn follows an protagonists whose cognition is decreasing chapter by chapter. Montfort selected mass shootings and guns to be the subject matter for his program, however, when asked why he selected mass shootings, Montfort was evasive. He stated that his poetry did not have intent, but rather was purely explorative. I found this idiotic. Montforts poetry has intent because he made decisions around what material he would feed to the program. To say he writes without intent is pure fallacy. Additionally, by picking a subject matter, particularly a subject matter as politically and emotionally charged as mass shootings, a writer takes on a responsibility for that topic. There is a vast, yawning wealth of knowledge on wikipedia, and many topics would be excellent showcase the program if the intent was only to “purely explorative.” I am at a loss why Montfort would choose mass shootings at as a topic, and then deny any intent within that. Writing is powerful. Poetry is powerful. Words can create change. Why would someone who clearly has access and prowess developing a new literacy, take such a grey stance on something so controversial? To me in the mass shooting debate, complacency makes us complicit. For Montfort to use it, and not take any sort of stance on it, is nothing short of a disgrace."
