---
layout:     post
title:      Be Right Back
date:       2018-11-15 
summary:    A watching response. 
categories: jekyll
thumbnail: cogs
tags:
 - Blog
---

"Be Right back

Be Right Back draws deep on themes of human grief, imperfection, and flaw. The couple the episode focuses on, Martha and Ash, are easily compatible, not perfect, but care deeply for each other. When Ash dies, Martha, compelled by grief, begins using a program that emulates her lost partner by building a digital Ash from his texts, phone calls, emails. Gradually, Martha becomes more invested, uprgrading digital Ash from a textbot, to a voice, to eventually giving him his own body. Here, things take a turn for the creepy. As Ash sits stewing and bubbling in a tub, Martha sits in her secluded house in the English countryside, awaiting the physical return of her dead partner. It seems as if the episode will devolve into a slasher, but it doesn’t. Rather, viewers are presented with the something far more painful than a rampaging robot. In lieu of bloodshed Martha slowly, painfully, realizes that this isn’t Ash. It's a faithful copy to the original, but is only an accumulation of Ash’s cyber personality, merely echoes of who he was on his phone. `This leads into interesting question around grief and ethics. Martha is desperately trying to recover what she lost, but the most heartbreaking aspect of the film is that no matter the technology, Ash is in the ground. The robot that speaks with his voice and smiles with his smile is a shard of Ash, a memory. At the episodes closing, Ash is put up in the attic. The symbolism here comes from Ash’s mother placing the photographs of her departed husband and son in the attic. Robotic Ash is simply an extension of this idea. However, he lacks the genuineness of his real self. Robotic Ash is a perfect photograph. 
	Interestingly, the episode underplays the fact that Martha pours money into her recreating Ash. For me, this brought up a number of ethical questions around how technology can worsen our grief. However, to examine this, I have to wonder what grief exactly means. Is it forgetting? Or a kind of distanced remembering? From my own, limited experience, grief is a journey in gradually lessening pain. Understanding grief in this way, Martha is continuously ripping open the wound by allowing robotic Ash in her life. This led me to question the current ways we use technology to deal with grief, including pictures videos, etc. Where do we draw the line between remembering someone well, and dishonoring their memory through bastardizations of them?"

