---
layout:     post
title:      Digital Blackface
date:       2018-10-30
summary:    A reading response. 
categories: jekyll
thumbnail: cogs
tags:
 - Blog
---

#"Digital Blackface"

"Before reading Lauren Michele Jackson’s piece, “We Need to Talk About Digital Blackface”, I had never considered the repercussions of gifs from a racial standpoint. Jackson uses Meghan McCain’s twitter feed as her foremost example. Given that McCain is a white, straight, conservative, Jackson draws attention to her prolific use of reaction gifs of black women in her tweets. However, at the time of writing this I did take a deep dive into Meghan McCains twitter feed, to find nothing like the offending tweets on the article. Suffice, to say, perhaps she read Jackson’s argument, and found it compelling. However, Jackson’s article asks questions that go much deeper than just reaction gifs. It brings to light the question of how racial hierarchies in the real world infiltrate our digital spaces. Jackson relates the use of these gifs to the antiquate practice of minstreling. Popular in in the early 19th century, it existed to mock and exaggerate black people. Jackson argues that using the “exaggerated” expressions of black people from reality tv shows and such as ways to express feelings is a modern, digitized offshoot. While this seems like a broad connection, Jackson explains her point:

	“Now, I'm not suggesting that white and nonblack people refrain from ever circulating a black person’s image for amusement or otherwise (except maybe lynching photos, Emmett Till’s casket, and videos of cops killing us, y’all can stop cycling those, thanks). 		There’s no prescriptive or proscriptive step-by-step rulebook to follow, nobody’s coming to take GIFs away. But no digital behavior exists in a deracialized vacuum. We all need to be cognizant of what we share, how we share, and to what extent that sharing dramatizes preexisting racial formulas inherited from “real life.” The Internet isn’t a fantasy — it’s real life.”

It seems that the first step in addressing the IRL racism that we bring into our digital spaces is just that, acknowledging that the internet, and technology in general does not exist in a world apart from our own. The same flawed people who are a part of racial hierarchies are users."
