---
layout:     post
title:      Gone Home
date:       2018-11-24-Gone-Home
summary:    A gaming response. 
categories: jekyll
thumbnail: cogs
tags:
 - Blog
---

#"Gone Home"
"Gone Home, by the full bright company, is a first person video game that takes place on a dark and stormy night in Oregon in the summer of 1995. The game immediately cuts to the chase, there is no dialogue other than journals found throughout the house, and the entire story is woven around the apparent disappearance of the protagonists family. Through exploring the house, solving combinations, and finding keys, the player is able to piece together the multi-sided, complex narrative. The joy in Gone Home is that the story that the player finds themselves in is only revealed but by bit, and the story itself leans heavily on simple notes, scattered across the creaky, creepy mansion in the pacific northwest. Gone Home offers a new, exciting storytelling experience. Despite its high-tech appearance, the heart of the game is ingrained in rock-solid writing. Gone Home is essentially a short mystery novel, bursting with romance, intrigue, conspiracy theories, and even hints of the occult. All of this is accompanied by relatively smooth gameplay, an excellent soundtrack, and intuitive game mechanics. Gone Home solidifies that video games offer a dynamic, immersive storytelling experience. Gone Home is not just a video game, but is a piece of literature in its own right, one that is consumed not only by reading, but through the eyes, ears, and keyboard. Like any literature, Gone Home is replete with subtext and offers the possibility of multiple interpretations. Not only can these be seen as different subjective interpretations of the text within the game, but the order in which is read. Gone Home leaves the player free to stumble through the story, learning things in or out of order as the storyline gradually falls into place. (SPOILERS AHEAD). Initially, I read the final “Letters to Katie” before Sam’s final letter on her bed. This still ended the game, but changed my reading of its entirely, without the final chapter of Sam’s journals the final letters read like a suicide note. Ultimately, I found Gone Home to be engaging, enlightening, and a fantastic example of how storytelling can involve with video games."



